    
1.What is difference in Overloading and Over riding
Ans : Method overloading and overriding both comes under the oops concept of polymorphism.

Method overloading: It is achieved by giving functions same name but different return type and parameters. 
It is compile time polymorphism.
It also increses the readability of a program.

Method overriding: It is achieved when a sub class has the same method as declared in the parent class.
It is run time polymorphism.
It should have the same name ad signature as of the method in its parent class.
There must be an is-a relationship.
 
2.If both the functions are statis can we over ride
Ans: No, it is not possible. Method overriding is based on dynamic bindin at run time but in the case of 
static methods they are bonded using static binding at compile time.

3. Diffference bew Final , Finally and Finalize
Ans : Final, Finally and Finalize are keywords that are used in exception handiling in java. 
Final : It is an access modifier used to apply restrictions on a class or method.
Finally : It is a block used in java exception handling to excecute the impotant code whether exception occurs or not.
Finalize : It is a method used to clean up processing just before the object garabage collection.

4.What are maker Interfaces
Ans : It is an interface which has no methods or constraints inside it. 
It provides run time type information about the object.

5.What is Singleton class
Ans : Singleton is a design pattern that comes under the creation design pattern.
Singleton class is used to control object creation by limiting the number of objects to only one. 
Since there is only one Singleton instance, any instance fields of a Singleton will occur only once per class, just like static fields. 

6.What is the underlying Data structure for Arraylist and Linkedlist
Ans : Underlying data structure of ArrayList is array
Underlying data structure of LinkedList is Doubly Linked List.

7.What is hash collitition
Ans : It is a situation where two or more key objects produce the same final hash value and hence point to the same bucket location or array index.

8.What are lambda Expressions
Ans :  Lambda expression is an inline code that implements a functional interface without creating a concrete or anonymous class.
 A lambda expression is basically an anonymous method.

You can use lambda expression to run thread.
Java lambda expression can be used in the collection framework. It provides efficient and concise way to iterate, filter and fetch data.
It enable us to treat functionality as method argument and pass a block of code around.

9.Whats is functional interface
Ans : A functional interface is an interface that contains only one abstract method.

10.What are optional classes in Java 8
Ans : It is a public final class and used to deal with NullPointerException in Java application.
It provides methods which are used to check the presence of value for particular variable.
eg : toString(),get() etc.

11.Whats is factory design pattern and Adapter and difference bew them
Ans : Factory Method Pattern : allows the sub-classes to choose the type of objects to create. It comes under creation design pattern.

Adapter design pattern : Used to provide the interface according to client requirement while using the services of a class with a different interface. 
It allows two or more previously incompatible objects to interact.
It allows reusability of existing functionality.

12.What are Solid principles
Ans : SOLID principles are an object-oriented approach that are applied to software structure design.
It is an acronym that stands for Single Responsibility Principle (SRP), Open-Closed Principle (OCP), 
Liskov Substitution Principle (LSP), Interface Segregation Principle (ISP), Dependency Inversion Principle (DIP)

 It also ensures that the software is modular, easy to understand, debug, and refactor. 

13. What does @component and @scan do in Sprinboot annaotation
Ans : @Component annotation is a class-level annotation that can not be used on the method level. 
If you define any class with @Component annotation that should be known to the spring application context.

We use the @ComponentScan annotation along with the @Configuration annotation to specify the packages that we want to be scanned.
 @ComponentScan without arguments tells Spring to scan the current package and all of its sub-packages.

14.Whats is the Diference bew JPA , Hibernate and ORM
Ans : 
ORM: Object Relational Mapping is a process of converting the data from Object oriented language to relational DB and vice versa.
Hibernate: Its the implementation of above concept.
JPA: Its the one step above ORM. 
Its high level API and specification so that different ORM tools can implement so that it provides the flexibility to developer to change the implementation from one ORM to another 

15.What is indexing in Database
Ans : Indexing is a way to optimize the performance of a database by minimizing the number of disk accesses required when a query is processed.
 It is a data structure technique which is used to quickly locate and access the data in a database. 

16.What are 4 types of Drivers in Jdbc
Ans : 
1. JDBC-ODBC bridge driver
2. Native-API driver - partially java driver
3. Network Protocol driver - fully java driver
4. Thin driver - fully java driver

17.What is difference between @component and @bean and @service
Ans : 
@Bean : It is used to explicitly declare a single bean, rather than letting Spring do it automatically. 
@Component : If any class is annotated with @Component it will be automatically detect by using classpath scan.
@Service : Used to indicate that they're holding the business logic. 

18. What is difference bew SOAP and restful services techinically
Ans : SOAP is a protocol, whereas REST is an architectural style.
SOAP requires more bandwidth, whereas REST requires fewer resources.
REST calls can be cached, while SOAP-based calls cannot be cached

19 . Difference in POST and PUT
Ans : PUT method is used to update resource available on the server.
You can use it to make a new resource or overwrite an existing one. 

POST is a method that is supported by HTTP and depicts that a web server accepts the data included in the body of the message, which is requested. 
POST is often used by WWW to send user generated data to the web server or when you upload file.

20.IS react uni directional or Bi directional
Ans : React is unidirectional.
